dev_install.adoc, before:

= Dev Sandbox Development Install

This document describes how to install Dev Sandbox in a development environment.

== Prereqs

. Ensure you have access to an OpenShift 4.6+ cluster with cluster admin privileges and log in using `oc login`

. Ensure you have the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e#pre-installed-tools[required tools] installed

. Register for a quay.io account if you don't have one
. Make sure you have set the `QUAY_NAMESPACE` variable: +
`export QUAY_NAMESPACE=<quay-username>`
. Log in to quay.io using `docker login quay.io`
. Make sure that the visibility of the `host-operator`, `member-operator`, `member-operator-webhook` and `registration-service` repositories on quay.io are all set to `public`:
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/host-operator?tab=settings
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/member-operator?tab=settings
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/member-operator-webhook?tab=settings
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/registration-service?tab=settings

. Configure authentication for the cluster:

Option #1: Contact a member of the Dev Sandbox Team for instructions on how to configure the cluster to use our internal Dev SSO.

Option #2: Configure your own Keycloak server and set up authentication on the OpenShift cluster: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/authentication/configuring-internal-oauth.html

== Install

. Clone this repository +
`git clone git@github.com:codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e.git`
. Run the following to install the Dev Sandbox operators +
`make dev-deploy-e2e`
. Run `oc get toolchainstatus -n <quay-io-username>-host-operator` and ensure the Ready status is `True`
+
```
NAME               MURS   READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-status   0      True    2021-03-24T22:39:36Z
```

=== Register/Login via the Registration Service

. The `make dev-deploy-e2e` prints the Registration Service URL. Open the link in a browser and sign up for an account.

. Wait for the message "Your OpenShift Developer Sandbox account is waiting for approval"

=== Approve The User

==== Manual Approval

Manual approval means each usersignup must be approved by editing the usersignup resource for a particular user.

. Approve the usersignup
`oc patch usersignup -p '{"spec":{"approved":true}}' --type=merge <usersignup name> -n <host operator namespace>`

==== Automatic Approval

Automatic approval means enabling automatic approval in the Dev Sandbox configuration. Users will be automatically approved and provisioned without admin intervention.

. Enable automatic approval
```
cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: toolchain.dev.openshift.com/v1alpha1
kind: HostOperatorConfig
metadata:
  name: config
  namespace: <host operator namespace>
spec:
  automaticApproval:
    enabled: true
EOF
```

== Cleanup
=== Remove Only Users and Their Namespaces

Run `make clean-users`

=== Remove All Sandbox-related Resources

Run `make clean-e2e-resources`

Commit message:

Add Using the Sandbox section

dev_install.adoc, after:

= Dev Sandbox Development Install

This document describes how to install Dev Sandbox in a development environment.

== Prereqs

. Ensure you have access to an OpenShift 4.6+ cluster with cluster admin privileges and log in using `oc login`

. Ensure you have the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e#pre-installed-tools[required tools] installed

. Register for a quay.io account if you don't have one
. Make sure you have set the `QUAY_NAMESPACE` variable: +
`export QUAY_NAMESPACE=<quay-username>`
. Log in to quay.io using `docker login quay.io`
. Make sure that the visibility of the `host-operator`, `member-operator`, `member-operator-webhook` and `registration-service` repositories on quay.io are all set to `public`:
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/host-operator?tab=settings
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/member-operator?tab=settings
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/member-operator-webhook?tab=settings
 * https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/registration-service?tab=settings

. Configure authentication for the cluster:

Option #1: Contact a member of the Dev Sandbox Team for instructions on how to configure the cluster to use our internal Dev SSO.

Option #2: Configure your own Keycloak server and set up authentication on the OpenShift cluster: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/authentication/configuring-internal-oauth.html

== Install

. Clone this repository +
`git clone git@github.com:codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e.git`
. Run the following to install the Dev Sandbox operators +
`make dev-deploy-e2e`
. Run `oc get toolchainstatus -n <quay-io-username>-host-operator` and ensure the Ready status is `True`
+
```
NAME               MURS   READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-status   0      True    2021-03-24T22:39:36Z
```

=== Register/Login via the Registration Service

. The `make dev-deploy-e2e` prints the Registration Service URL. Open the link in a browser and sign up for an account.

. Wait for the message "Your OpenShift Developer Sandbox account is waiting for approval"

=== Approve The User

==== Manual Approval

Manual approval means each usersignup must be approved by editing the usersignup resource for a particular user.

. Approve the usersignup
`oc patch usersignup -p '{"spec":{"approved":true}}' --type=merge <usersignup name> -n <host operator namespace>`

==== Automatic Approval

Automatic approval means enabling automatic approval in the Dev Sandbox configuration. Users will be automatically approved and provisioned without admin intervention.

. Enable automatic approval
```
cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: toolchain.dev.openshift.com/v1alpha1
kind: HostOperatorConfig
metadata:
  name: config
  namespace: <host operator namespace>
spec:
  automaticApproval:
    enabled: true
EOF
```

=== Using the Sandbox

After approval the registration service will display a link to start using the Sandbox. The link will go to the user's Dev Console, but first, a login page will appear with two options. +
1. _kube:admin_ +
2. _The authentication method configured in the prereq step_ +
Select option 2 and log in using the same account used from the <<Register/Login via the Registration Service>> step.

After logging in a user will have access to only the namespaces created for them.

== Cleanup
=== Remove Only Users and Their Namespaces

Run `make clean-users`

=== Remove All Sandbox-related Resources

Run `make clean-e2e-resources`
