multicluster_setup.adoc, before:

= Multi-Cluster Setup

Prerequisites:

You need to boostrap 2 clusters and make sure you have a `kubeconfig` file for each cluster in a dedicated/separate location.

== Setting up the KUBECONFIG

First, let's setup a single `KUBECONFIG` with multiple contexts. Assuming that `${HOST_CONFIG}` is the path to the `KUBECONFIG` file for your *Host* cluster, and `${MEMBER_CONFIG}` is the path to the `KUBECONFIG` file for your *Member* cluster:

[source,bash]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig ${HOST_CONFIG} config rename-context `oc --kubeconfig ${HOST_CONFIG} config current-context` host-admin

$ oc --kubeconfig ${MEMBER_CONFIG} config rename-context `oc --kubeconfig ${MEMBER_CONFIG} config current-context` member-admin

# join the 2 files to "generate" a single KUBECONFIG
$ export KUBECONFIG=${HOST_CONFIG}:${MEMBER_CONFIG}
----

At this point, we can switch the terminal connection from one cluster to another use the `oc config use-context host-admin` and `oc config use-context member-admin` commands.

You can verify by yourself with:

[source,bash]
----
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc whoami --show-server
Switched to context "host-admin".
https://api.<host_cluster_name>.devcluster.openshift.com:6443

$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc whoami --show-server
Switched to context "member-admin".
https://api.<member_cluster_name>.devcluster.openshift.com:6443

----

Once both contexts are configured, we can move on with the operator deployments, starting with the Host operator.

[source,bash]
----

$ export HOST_NS=toolchain-host-operator
$ export REGISTRATION_SERVICE_NS=${HOST_NS}

# deploy in the specific `toolchain-host-operator` namespace
$ oc config use-context host-admin && HOST_NS=${HOST_NS} make get-host-and-reg-service deploy-host
----

This will clone the remote https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator.git and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/registration-service.git repositories in `/tmp/codeready-toolchain/` and build the operator and service from these temporary directories, then deploy the Host operator on the Host cluster.

After a minute (or more), both `host-operator` and `registration-service` pods should be available:

[source,bash]
----
$ oc get pods -n ${HOST_NS}
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
host-operator-...-...                   1/1     Running   0          ...
registration-service-...-...            1/1     Running   0          ...
registration-service-...-...            1/1     Running   0          ...
----

== Member Cluster Setup

The same logic as above is applied to deploy the Member operator on the Member cluster:

[source,bash]
----
$ export MEMBER_NS=toolchain-member-operator

# on the member cluster, in the `toolchain-member-operator` namespace
$ oc config use-context member-admin && MEMBER_NS_TO_DEPLOY=${MEMBER_NS} make get-member-operator-repo deploy-member
...

$ oc get pods -n ${MEMBER_NS}
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
member-operator-...-...            1/1     Running   0          ...
----

== Configuring the Operators

Once Host and Member operators have been deployed on their respective cluster, they need to be configured to communicate with each other.

At this stage, each operator has its own status resource, which is in a `Ready=False` status, because the host-member connection is not set yet:

[source,bash]
----
# on the host cluster
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc get toolchainstatus -n ${HOST_NS}
NAME               READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-status   False   ...

# on the member cluster
$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc get memberstatus -n ${MEMBER_NS}
NAME                      READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-member-status   False   ...
----

[source,bash]
----
# create/configure the ToolchainCluster resources on host and member clusters
$ curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-common/master/scripts/add-cluster.sh | bash -s -- -t member -mn ${MEMBER_NS} -hn ${HOST_NS}
$ curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-common/master/scripts/add-cluster.sh | bash -s -- -t host -mn ${MEMBER_NS} -hn ${HOST_NS}
	

# verify
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc get toolchainstatus -n ${HOST_NS}
NAME               READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-status   True    ...

$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc get toolchainclusters -n ${HOST_NS}
Switched to context "host-admin".
NAME                               AGE   READY
member-...                         ...   True

# on the member cluster
$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc get memberstatus -n ${MEMBER_NS}
NAME                      READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-member-status   True    ...

$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc get toolchainclusters -n ${MEMBER_NS}
Switched to context "member-admin".
NAME                               AGE   READY
host-...                           ...   True
----

At this point, Host and Member clusters are ready to use.

[source,bash]
----
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc project ${HOST_NS}
Switched to context "host-admin".
Now using project "toolchain-host-operator" on server ...

$ HOST_NS=${HOST_NS} MEMBER_NS=${MEMBER_NS} operator-sdk test local ./test/e2e --no-setup --operator-namespace toolchain-e2e --verbose --go-test-flags "-test.timeout=30m -test.failfast -run TestE2E -v"
----

Have fun!

Commit message:

doc: improve multi-cluster setup doc (#284)
mention that `oc login` on each cluster is a prerquisite.

multicluster_setup.adoc, after:

= Multi-Cluster Setup

Prerequisites:

You need to boostrap 2 clusters and make sure you have a `kubeconfig` file for each cluster in a dedicated/separate location.
Also, make sure that you already ran the `oc --kubeconfig=<path_to_config> login` on each cluster.

== Setting up the KUBECONFIG

First, let's setup a single `KUBECONFIG` with multiple contexts. Assuming that `${HOST_CONFIG}` is the path to the `KUBECONFIG` file for your *Host* cluster, and `${MEMBER_CONFIG}` is the path to the `KUBECONFIG` file for your *Member* cluster:

[source,bash]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig ${HOST_CONFIG} config rename-context `oc --kubeconfig ${HOST_CONFIG} config current-context` host-admin

$ oc --kubeconfig ${MEMBER_CONFIG} config rename-context `oc --kubeconfig ${MEMBER_CONFIG} config current-context` member-admin

# join the 2 files to "generate" a single KUBECONFIG
$ export KUBECONFIG=${HOST_CONFIG}:${MEMBER_CONFIG}
----

At this point, we can switch the terminal connection from one cluster to another use the `oc config use-context host-admin` and `oc config use-context member-admin` commands.

You can verify by yourself with:

[source,bash]
----
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc whoami --show-server
Switched to context "host-admin".
https://api.<host_cluster_name>.devcluster.openshift.com:6443

$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc whoami --show-server
Switched to context "member-admin".
https://api.<member_cluster_name>.devcluster.openshift.com:6443

----

Once both contexts are configured, we can move on with the operator deployments, starting with the Host operator.

[source,bash]
----

$ export HOST_NS=toolchain-host-operator
$ export REGISTRATION_SERVICE_NS=${HOST_NS}

# deploy in the specific `toolchain-host-operator` namespace
$ oc config use-context host-admin && HOST_NS=${HOST_NS} make get-host-and-reg-service deploy-host
----

This will clone the remote https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator.git and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/registration-service.git repositories in `/tmp/codeready-toolchain/` and build the operator and service from these temporary directories, then deploy the Host operator on the Host cluster.

After a minute (or more), both `host-operator` and `registration-service` pods should be available:

[source,bash]
----
$ oc get pods -n ${HOST_NS}
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
host-operator-...-...                   1/1     Running   0          ...
registration-service-...-...            1/1     Running   0          ...
registration-service-...-...            1/1     Running   0          ...
----

== Member Cluster Setup

The same logic as above is applied to deploy the Member operator on the Member cluster:

[source,bash]
----
$ export MEMBER_NS=toolchain-member-operator

# on the member cluster, in the `toolchain-member-operator` namespace
$ oc config use-context member-admin && MEMBER_NS_TO_DEPLOY=${MEMBER_NS} make get-member-operator-repo deploy-member
...

$ oc get pods -n ${MEMBER_NS}
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
member-operator-...-...            1/1     Running   0          ...
----

== Configuring the Operators

Once Host and Member operators have been deployed on their respective cluster, they need to be configured to communicate with each other.

At this stage, each operator has its own status resource, which is in a `Ready=False` status, because the host-member connection is not set yet:

[source,bash]
----
# on the host cluster
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc get toolchainstatus -n ${HOST_NS}
NAME               READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-status   False   ...

# on the member cluster
$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc get memberstatus -n ${MEMBER_NS}
NAME                      READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-member-status   False   ...
----

[source,bash]
----
# create/configure the ToolchainCluster resources on host and member clusters
$ curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-common/master/scripts/add-cluster.sh | bash -s -- -t member -mn ${MEMBER_NS} -hn ${HOST_NS}
$ curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-common/master/scripts/add-cluster.sh | bash -s -- -t host -mn ${MEMBER_NS} -hn ${HOST_NS}
	

# verify
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc get toolchainstatus -n ${HOST_NS}
NAME               READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-status   True    ...

$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc get toolchainclusters -n ${HOST_NS}
Switched to context "host-admin".
NAME                               AGE   READY
member-...                         ...   True

# on the member cluster
$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc get memberstatus -n ${MEMBER_NS}
NAME                      READY   LAST UPDATED
toolchain-member-status   True    ...

$ oc config use-context member-admin && oc get toolchainclusters -n ${MEMBER_NS}
Switched to context "member-admin".
NAME                               AGE   READY
host-...                           ...   True
----

At this point, Host and Member clusters are ready to use.

[source,bash]
----
$ oc config use-context host-admin && oc project ${HOST_NS}
Switched to context "host-admin".
Now using project "toolchain-host-operator" on server ...

$ HOST_NS=${HOST_NS} MEMBER_NS=${MEMBER_NS} operator-sdk test local ./test/e2e --no-setup --operator-namespace toolchain-e2e --verbose --go-test-flags "-test.timeout=30m -test.failfast -run TestE2E -v"
----

Have fun!
