README.adoc, before:

= CodeReady Toolchain E2E Tests

image:https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e[Go Report Card, link="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e"]
image:https://godoc.org/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e?status.png[GoDoc,link="https://godoc.org/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e"]

This repo contains e2e tests for https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member] operators of CodeReady Toolchain.

== Build

Requires Go version 1.19.x (1.19.7 or higher) - download for your development environment https://golang.org/dl/[here].

This repository uses https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules[Go modules].

== Step by step guide - running in CodeReady Containers

Refer to link:CRC.adoc[this guide] for detailed instructions on running the e2e tests in a local CodeReady Containers cluster.

== End-to-End Tests

The e2e tests are executed against host and member operators running in OpenShift. The operators are built from the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repositories.

Since the changes in the e2e repo sometimes require changes in some of the operator repositories at the same time, the logic that executes the e2e tests supports a feature of pairing the e2e PR with *one* other PR based on branch names.
Before the e2e tests are executed in openshift-ci, the logic automatically tries to pair a PR opened for this (toolchain-e2e) repository with a branch of the same name that potentially could exist in any of the developer's fork of the operator repositories.

For example, if a developer with GH account `cooljohn` opens a PR (for toolchain-e2e repo) from a branch `fix-reconcile`, then the logic checks if there is a branch `fix-reconcile` also in the `cooljohn/host-operator` and `cooljohn/member-operator` forks.
Let's say that `cooljohn/host-operator` contains such a branch but `cooljohn/member-operator` doesn't, then the logic:

1. clones latest changes of both repos https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[codeready-toolchain/host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[codeready-toolchain/member-operator]
2. fetches the `fix-reconcile` branch from `cooljohn/host-operator` fork
3. merges `master` branch with the changes from `fix-reconcile` branch inside of `host-operator` repo
4. builds images from the merge branch of `host-operator` repo and from `master` branch of `member-operator` repo & deploys them to OpenShift
5. runs e2e tests taken from the opened PR

It would work analogically also for the case when none of the repositories contain the branch name. However, if *both* repositories contain the branch name then it will result in an error.
This is by design because OLM does not ensure that both the host-operator and member-operator will be updated at the same time in production. Prohibiting PR pairing with more than one repo helps ensure they do not depend on one another and can be updated separately.

If you still don't know what to do with e2e tests in some use-cases, go to <<What To Do>> section where all use-cases are covered.

=== Prerequisites if Running Locally

Install the link:required_tools.adoc[required tools].

==== OpenShift 4.2+

* Make sure you have set the `QUAY_NAMESPACE` variable: `export QUAY_NAMESPACE=<quay-username>`
* Log in to the quay.io using `docker login quay.io`
* Make sure that the visibility of all repositories `host-operator`, `member-operator` and `registration-service` in quay is set to `public` (https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/host-operator?tab=settings https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/member-operator?tab=settings https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/registration-service?tab=settings)
* Log in to the target OpenShift 4.2+ cluster with cluster admin privileges using `oc login`

==== Running in a Development Environment

See the procedure to install the Dev Sandbox in a development environment link:dev_install.adoc[here].

=== Running End-to-End Tests

. link:quay.adoc[Configure your quay account for dev deployment]
Although the e2e tests are in the separated repository than the actual operators are, it's still possible to run them against the current code that is at HEAD of the operator repositories.
There are multiple Makefile targets that will execute the e2e tests, they just differ in where the operators' code is taken from:

* `make test-e2e` - this target clones the latest changes from both repos https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator], builds images from the master, deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.
* `make test-e2e-local` - this target doesn't clone anything, but it builds operator images from the directories `../host-operator` and `../member-operator`. These images deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.
* `make test-e2e-member-local` - this target clones only the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo and builds an image from it. For member-operator, it builds the image from `../member-operator` directory. These images deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.
* `make test-e2e-host-local` - this target clones only the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo and builds an image from it. For host-operator, it builds the image from `../host-operator` directory. These images deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.

The e2e tests will take care of creating all needed namespaces with random names (or see below for enforcing some specific namespace names).
It will also create all required CRDs, role and role bindings for the service accounts, build the Docker images for both operators and push them to the OpenShift container registry. Finally, it will deploy the operators and run the tests using the operator-sdk.


NOTE: you can override the default namespace names where the end-to-end tests are going to be executed - eg.: `make test-e2e HOST_NS=my-host MEMBER_NS=my-member` file.

=== Running/Debugging e2e tests from your IDE

In order to run/debug tests from your IDE you'll need to export some required env variables, those will be used by the test framework to interact with the operator namespaces and the other toolchain resources in you cluster.
Following snippet of code should be TEMPORARILY added at the top of the test you want to run/debug from your IDE:

```
os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS","toolchain-member-18161051")
os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS_2","toolchain-member2-18161051")
os.Setenv("HOST_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
os.Setenv("REGISTRATION_SERVICE_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
os.Setenv("KUBECONFIG", "~/aws-cluster-test/my-devsandbox/auth/kubeconfig")
```

example of Test case code containing the debugging env variables:
```
package parallel

import (
	"context"
	"os"
	"testing"
)

func TestCreateSpaceRequest(t *testing.T) {
	os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS","toolchain-member-18161051")
	os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS_2","toolchain-member2-18161051")
	os.Setenv("HOST_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
	os.Setenv("REGISTRATION_SERVICE_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
	os.Setenv("KUBECONFIG", "~/aws-cluster-test/my-devsandbox/auth/kubeconfig")
	// some more code here ...

	t.Run("create space request", func(t *testing.T) {
        // test case impelementation here ...
....
```

NOTE: replace the values with the ones from your dev/test environment and REMEMBER TO REMOVE THE SNIPPET BEFORE COMMITTING THE CODE OR OPENING A PR IN GH :)


===== What To Do

If you are still confused by the different e2e/operator location, execution and branch pairing, see the following cases and needed steps:

* *Working locally:*
** *Need to verify changes in e2e tests against the latest version of both operators:*
*** run `make test-e2e`
** *You are working in both repos `toolchain-e2e` and `member-operator`, so you need to run e2e tests against your current code located in `../member-operator` directory:*
*** run `make test-e2e-member-local`
** *You are working in both repos `toolchain-e2e` and `host-operator`, so you need to run e2e tests against your current code located in `../host-operator` directory:*
*** run `make test-e2e-host-local`
** *You are working in all three repos `toolchain-e2e`, `host-operator` and `member-operator`, so you need to run e2e tests against your current code located in both directories `../host-operator` and `../member-operator`:*
*** run `make test-e2e-local`

* *Creating PRs:*
** *Your PR doesn't need any changes in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo nor https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo:*
*** 1. check the name of a branch you are going to create a PR for
*** 2. make sure that your forks of both repos (https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator]) don't contain a branch with the same name
*** 3. create a PR
** *Your PR requires changes in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo but not in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo:*
*** 1. check the name of a branch you are going to create a PR for
*** 2. create a branch with the same name within your fork of https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo and put all necessary changes there
*** 3. make sure that your fork of https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo doesn't contain a branch with the same name
*** 4. push all changes into both forks of the repositories https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e[toolchain-e2e] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator]
*** 5. create a PR for https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e[toolchain-e2e]
*** 6. create a PR for https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator]
** *Your PR requires changes in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo but not in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo:*
*** See the previous case and just swap member-operator and host-operator.
** *Your PR requires changes in both repos https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator]:*
*** This is prohibited and will result in an error like `ERROR WHILE TRYING TO PAIR PRs` in the CI build. See the reasoning behind this in the <<End-to-End Tests>> section.

== Deploying End-to-End Resources Without Running Tests

All e2e resources (host operator, member operator, registration-service, CRDs, etc) can be deployed without running tests:

* `make dev-deploy-e2e-local` - deploys the same resources as `make test-e2e-local` but doesn't run tests.

* `make dev-deploy-e2e` - deploys the same resources as `make test-e2e` but doesn't run tests.

By default these targets deploy resources to `toolchain-host-operator` and `toolchain-member-operator` namespaces.

NOTE: If running in CodeReady Containers `eval $(crc oc-env)` is required.

== How to Test Mailgun/Twilio Notifications in a Dev Environment
* Get a cluster and setup the following env vars
** `export QUAY_NAMESPACE=<your-quay-namespace>`
** `export KUBECONFIG=<location-to-kubeconfig>`
* Run `docker login quay.io`
* Create https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-infra/tree/master/config/oauth[IdP]
* If you need to change any of the default configuration, modify the ToolchainConfig in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e/blob/master/deploy/host-operator/dev/toolchainconfig.yaml[deploy/host-operator/dev/toolchainconfig.yaml]
* To set working notification/verification secrets, modify them in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e/blob/master/deploy/host-operator/dev/secrets.yaml[deploy/host-operator/dev/secrets.yaml]
* Run `make dev-deploy-e2e-local`
* Go to the registration-service link and sign in
* Click on the `Get Started With CodeReady Toolchain` button
* Approve your usersignup found on the `<username>-host-operator` namespace

Commit message:

fix: allow insecure clusters (#800)
* fix: allow insecure clusters

Signed-off-by: Francesco Ilario <filario@redhat.com>

* Override ca.crt in kubeconfigs

Signed-off-by: Francesco Ilario <filario@redhat.com>

* Add feature flag to disable TLS

Signed-off-by: Francesco Ilario <filario@redhat.com>

* Update README

Signed-off-by: Francesco Ilario <filario@redhat.com>

* Rename util.BuildKubernetesClient to BuildKubernetesRESTConfig

Signed-off-by: Francesco Ilario <filario@redhat.com>

* Update README.adoc

Co-authored-by: Baiju Muthukadan <baiju.m.mail@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Francesco Ilario <filario@redhat.com>
Co-authored-by: Baiju Muthukadan <baiju.m.mail@gmail.com>

README.adoc, after:

= CodeReady Toolchain E2E Tests

image:https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e[Go Report Card, link="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e"]
image:https://godoc.org/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e?status.png[GoDoc,link="https://godoc.org/github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e"]

This repo contains e2e tests for https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member] operators of CodeReady Toolchain.

== Build

Requires Go version 1.19.x (1.19.7 or higher) - download for your development environment https://golang.org/dl/[here].

This repository uses https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules[Go modules].

== Step by step guide - running in CodeReady Containers

Refer to link:CRC.adoc[this guide] for detailed instructions on running the e2e tests in a local CodeReady Containers cluster.

== End-to-End Tests

The e2e tests are executed against host and member operators running in OpenShift. The operators are built from the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repositories.

Since the changes in the e2e repo sometimes require changes in some of the operator repositories at the same time, the logic that executes the e2e tests supports a feature of pairing the e2e PR with *one* other PR based on branch names.
Before the e2e tests are executed in openshift-ci, the logic automatically tries to pair a PR opened for this (toolchain-e2e) repository with a branch of the same name that potentially could exist in any of the developer's fork of the operator repositories.

For example, if a developer with GH account `cooljohn` opens a PR (for toolchain-e2e repo) from a branch `fix-reconcile`, then the logic checks if there is a branch `fix-reconcile` also in the `cooljohn/host-operator` and `cooljohn/member-operator` forks.
Let's say that `cooljohn/host-operator` contains such a branch but `cooljohn/member-operator` doesn't, then the logic:

1. clones latest changes of both repos https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[codeready-toolchain/host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[codeready-toolchain/member-operator]
2. fetches the `fix-reconcile` branch from `cooljohn/host-operator` fork
3. merges `master` branch with the changes from `fix-reconcile` branch inside of `host-operator` repo
4. builds images from the merge branch of `host-operator` repo and from `master` branch of `member-operator` repo & deploys them to OpenShift
5. runs e2e tests taken from the opened PR

It would work analogically also for the case when none of the repositories contain the branch name. However, if *both* repositories contain the branch name then it will result in an error.
This is by design because OLM does not ensure that both the host-operator and member-operator will be updated at the same time in production. Prohibiting PR pairing with more than one repo helps ensure they do not depend on one another and can be updated separately.

If you still don't know what to do with e2e tests in some use-cases, go to <<What To Do>> section where all use-cases are covered.

=== Prerequisites if Running Locally

Install the link:required_tools.adoc[required tools].

==== OpenShift 4.2+

* Make sure you have set the `QUAY_NAMESPACE` variable: `export QUAY_NAMESPACE=<quay-username>`
* Log in to the quay.io using `docker login quay.io`
* Make sure that the visibility of all repositories `host-operator`, `member-operator` and `registration-service` in quay is set to `public` (https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/host-operator?tab=settings https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/member-operator?tab=settings https://quay.io/repository/<your-username>/registration-service?tab=settings)
* Log in to the target OpenShift 4.2+ cluster with cluster admin privileges using `oc login`

==== Running in a Development Environment

See the procedure to install the Dev Sandbox in a development environment link:dev_install.adoc[here].

=== Running End-to-End Tests

. link:quay.adoc[Configure your quay account for dev deployment]
Although the e2e tests are in the separated repository than the actual operators are, it's still possible to run them against the current code that is at HEAD of the operator repositories.
There are multiple Makefile targets that will execute the e2e tests, they just differ in where the operators' code is taken from:

* `make test-e2e` - this target clones the latest changes from both repos https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator], builds images from the master, deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.
* `make test-e2e-local` - this target doesn't clone anything, but it builds operator images from the directories `../host-operator` and `../member-operator`. These images deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.
* `make test-e2e-member-local` - this target clones only the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo and builds an image from it. For member-operator, it builds the image from `../member-operator` directory. These images deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.
* `make test-e2e-host-local` - this target clones only the https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo and builds an image from it. For host-operator, it builds the image from `../host-operator` directory. These images deploys to OpenShift and runs e2e tests against them.

The e2e tests will take care of creating all needed namespaces with random names (or see below for enforcing some specific namespace names).
It will also create all required CRDs, role and role bindings for the service accounts, build the Docker images for both operators and push them to the OpenShift container registry. Finally, it will deploy the operators and run the tests using the operator-sdk.


NOTE: you can override the default namespace names where the end-to-end tests are going to be executed - eg.: `make test-e2e HOST_NS=my-host MEMBER_NS=my-member` file.

NOTE: you can disable SSL/TLS certificate verification in tests setting the `DISABLE_KUBE_CLIENT_TLS_VERIFY` variable to `true` - eg.: `make test-e2e DISABLE_KUBE_CLIENT_TLS_VERIFY=true`. This flag helps when you test in clusters using Self-Signed Certificates.

=== Running/Debugging e2e tests from your IDE

In order to run/debug tests from your IDE you'll need to export some required env variables, those will be used by the test framework to interact with the operator namespaces and the other toolchain resources in you cluster.
Following snippet of code should be TEMPORARILY added at the top of the test you want to run/debug from your IDE:

```
os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS","toolchain-member-18161051")
os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS_2","toolchain-member2-18161051")
os.Setenv("HOST_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
os.Setenv("REGISTRATION_SERVICE_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
os.Setenv("KUBECONFIG", "~/aws-cluster-test/my-devsandbox/auth/kubeconfig")
```

example of Test case code containing the debugging env variables:
```
package parallel

import (
	"context"
	"os"
	"testing"
)

func TestCreateSpaceRequest(t *testing.T) {
	os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS","toolchain-member-18161051")
	os.Setenv("MEMBER_NS_2","toolchain-member2-18161051")
	os.Setenv("HOST_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
	os.Setenv("REGISTRATION_SERVICE_NS","toolchain-host-18161051")
	os.Setenv("KUBECONFIG", "~/aws-cluster-test/my-devsandbox/auth/kubeconfig")
	// some more code here ...

	t.Run("create space request", func(t *testing.T) {
        // test case impelementation here ...
....
```

NOTE: replace the values with the ones from your dev/test environment and REMEMBER TO REMOVE THE SNIPPET BEFORE COMMITTING THE CODE OR OPENING A PR IN GH :)


===== What To Do

If you are still confused by the different e2e/operator location, execution and branch pairing, see the following cases and needed steps:

* *Working locally:*
** *Need to verify changes in e2e tests against the latest version of both operators:*
*** run `make test-e2e`
** *You are working in both repos `toolchain-e2e` and `member-operator`, so you need to run e2e tests against your current code located in `../member-operator` directory:*
*** run `make test-e2e-member-local`
** *You are working in both repos `toolchain-e2e` and `host-operator`, so you need to run e2e tests against your current code located in `../host-operator` directory:*
*** run `make test-e2e-host-local`
** *You are working in all three repos `toolchain-e2e`, `host-operator` and `member-operator`, so you need to run e2e tests against your current code located in both directories `../host-operator` and `../member-operator`:*
*** run `make test-e2e-local`

* *Creating PRs:*
** *Your PR doesn't need any changes in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo nor https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo:*
*** 1. check the name of a branch you are going to create a PR for
*** 2. make sure that your forks of both repos (https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator]) don't contain a branch with the same name
*** 3. create a PR
** *Your PR requires changes in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo but not in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo:*
*** 1. check the name of a branch you are going to create a PR for
*** 2. create a branch with the same name within your fork of https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo and put all necessary changes there
*** 3. make sure that your fork of https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo doesn't contain a branch with the same name
*** 4. push all changes into both forks of the repositories https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e[toolchain-e2e] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator]
*** 5. create a PR for https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e[toolchain-e2e]
*** 6. create a PR for https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator]
** *Your PR requires changes in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator] repo but not in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] repo:*
*** See the previous case and just swap member-operator and host-operator.
** *Your PR requires changes in both repos https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/host-operator[host-operator] and https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/member-operator[member-operator]:*
*** This is prohibited and will result in an error like `ERROR WHILE TRYING TO PAIR PRs` in the CI build. See the reasoning behind this in the <<End-to-End Tests>> section.

== Deploying End-to-End Resources Without Running Tests

All e2e resources (host operator, member operator, registration-service, CRDs, etc) can be deployed without running tests:

* `make dev-deploy-e2e-local` - deploys the same resources as `make test-e2e-local` but doesn't run tests.

* `make dev-deploy-e2e` - deploys the same resources as `make test-e2e` but doesn't run tests.

By default these targets deploy resources to `toolchain-host-operator` and `toolchain-member-operator` namespaces.

NOTE: If running in CodeReady Containers `eval $(crc oc-env)` is required.

== How to Test Mailgun/Twilio Notifications in a Dev Environment
* Get a cluster and setup the following env vars
** `export QUAY_NAMESPACE=<your-quay-namespace>`
** `export KUBECONFIG=<location-to-kubeconfig>`
* Run `docker login quay.io`
* Create https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-infra/tree/master/config/oauth[IdP]
* If you need to change any of the default configuration, modify the ToolchainConfig in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e/blob/master/deploy/host-operator/dev/toolchainconfig.yaml[deploy/host-operator/dev/toolchainconfig.yaml]
* To set working notification/verification secrets, modify them in https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/toolchain-e2e/blob/master/deploy/host-operator/dev/secrets.yaml[deploy/host-operator/dev/secrets.yaml]
* Run `make dev-deploy-e2e-local`
* Go to the registration-service link and sign in
* Click on the `Get Started With CodeReady Toolchain` button
* Approve your usersignup found on the `<username>-host-operator` namespace
